README.md, before:

# 84EM Custom Code

A WordPress plugin that provides custom functionality for the 84EM website.

## Description

This plugin contains various customizations and enhancements for the 84EM WordPress website. It extends WordPress functionality with SEO improvements, performance optimizations, and custom features tailored specifically for 84EM.

## Features

- **SEO Enhancements**
  - Custom meta tags implementation
  - Schema.org structured data for posts, pages, and projects
  - XML sitemap generation
  - Document title optimizations
  - Search functionality customizations

- **Performance Optimizations**
  - Script and style dequeuing
  - Various performance improvements

- **Content Enhancements**
  - Shortcode for displaying last updated date
  - Author page customizations
  - Shortlinks management

- **Integrations**
  - Advanced Custom Fields (ACF) integration
  - Gravity Forms customizations
  - Google Reviews implementation with custom block

- **Security & Functionality**
  - Comments system management (disable comments)

## Components

The plugin includes the following components:

- **acf.php** - Advanced Custom Fields integration
- **author-pages.php** - Customizations for author pages
- **dequeue.php** - Removes unnecessary scripts and styles
- **disable-comments.php** - Disables WordPress comments functionality
- **document-title.php** - Customizes document titles
- **google-reviews-block** - Custom block for displaying Google Reviews
- **google-reviews.php** - Google Reviews integration
- **gravity-forms.php** - Gravity Forms integration and customizations
- **meta-tags.php** - Handles meta tags for SEO
- **performance.php** - Performance optimizations
- **schema.php** - Schema.org markup implementation
- **search.php** - Search functionality customizations
- **shortcode-last-updated.php** - Shortcode for displaying last updated date
- **shortlinks.php** - Custom shortlinks functionality
- **sitemap.php** - XML sitemap generation

## Installation

1. Upload the `84em-custom` folder to the `/wp-content/plugins/` directory
2. Activate the plugin through the 'Plugins' menu in WordPress
3. No additional configuration is needed as the plugin works automatically

## Requirements

- WordPress 6.8 or higher
- PHP 8.0 or higher

## Development

### Changelog Management

This plugin includes automated changelog generation based on Git commit history and tags.

#### Scripts

- **update-changelog.sh** - Generates `changelog.txt` from Git log, organized by tags/releases
- **tag-and-changelog.sh** - Creates a Git tag and automatically updates the changelog

#### Usage

To create a new release with automatic changelog generation:

```bash
./tag-and-changelog.sh v1.0.3 "Release version 1.0.3 with new features"
```

This will:
1. Create a Git tag with the specified name and message
2. Generate an updated changelog.txt file
3. Commit the changelog changes
4. Provide instructions for pushing to remote repository

To manually update the changelog:

```bash
./update-changelog.sh
```

#### Changelog Format

The generated changelog follows the [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/) format and includes:
- **[Unreleased]** - Commits since the latest tag
- **[Tag Version] - Date** - Commits included in each tagged release

#### Deployment Integration

The `deploy.sh` script automatically updates the changelog before deployment to ensure the remote server always has the latest changelog.

### Gulp Integration

This plugin uses Gulp to optimize JavaScript and CSS files. The Gulp setup provides tasks for minifying JS files, optimizing CSS files, and watching for changes during development.

#### Setup

1. Make sure you have Node.js and npm installed
2. Navigate to the plugin directory in your terminal
3. Run `npm install` to install dependencies

#### Available Commands

- `npm start` - Starts the development process with file watching
- `npm run build` - Builds optimized files for production

#### Gulp Tasks

- `gulp clean` - Removes previously generated minified files
- `gulp styles` - Optimizes CSS files
- `gulp scripts` - Minifies JavaScript files
- `gulp watch` - Watches for changes in source files
- `gulp build` - Builds all assets for production (cleans, then processes JS and CSS)

#### File Structure

The Gulp setup processes the following files:
- JavaScript: `inc/google-reviews-block/block.js` → `inc/google-reviews-block/block.min.js`
- CSS: 
  - `inc/google-reviews-block/style.css` → `inc/google-reviews-block/style.min.css`
  - `inc/google-reviews-block/editor.css` → `inc/google-reviews-block/editor.min.css`

## Usage

Most features work automatically after activation. The plugin enhances your site's SEO, performance, and functionality without requiring manual configuration.

### Shortcodes

- `[last_updated]` - Displays the last updated date of a post or page

## XML Sitemap

The plugin automatically generates an XML sitemap at the root of your website (`sitemap.xml`). The sitemap is updated whenever a post, page, or project is published, with a 5-minute delay to prevent excessive regeneration.

## Version

Current version: 1.0.3

## Author

Andrew Miller @ 84EM - [https://84em.com/](https://84em.com/)

## License

This plugin is proprietary software developed specifically for 84EM.

Commit message:

Restricts changelog updates to tag creation only
Prevents manual execution of changelog script to ensure consistency and proper versioning workflow

Adds parameter validation to update script that requires --from-tag-creation flag
Removes automatic changelog generation from deployment process
Updates documentation to reflect the restricted usage pattern

README.md, after:

# 84EM Custom Code

A WordPress plugin that provides custom functionality for the 84EM website.

## Description

This plugin contains various customizations and enhancements for the 84EM WordPress website. It extends WordPress functionality with SEO improvements, performance optimizations, and custom features tailored specifically for 84EM.

## Features

- **SEO Enhancements**
  - Custom meta tags implementation
  - Schema.org structured data for posts, pages, and projects
  - XML sitemap generation
  - Document title optimizations
  - Search functionality customizations

- **Performance Optimizations**
  - Script and style dequeuing
  - Various performance improvements

- **Content Enhancements**
  - Shortcode for displaying last updated date
  - Author page customizations
  - Shortlinks management

- **Integrations**
  - Advanced Custom Fields (ACF) integration
  - Gravity Forms customizations
  - Google Reviews implementation with custom block

- **Security & Functionality**
  - Comments system management (disable comments)

## Components

The plugin includes the following components:

- **acf.php** - Advanced Custom Fields integration
- **author-pages.php** - Customizations for author pages
- **dequeue.php** - Removes unnecessary scripts and styles
- **disable-comments.php** - Disables WordPress comments functionality
- **document-title.php** - Customizes document titles
- **google-reviews-block** - Custom block for displaying Google Reviews
- **google-reviews.php** - Google Reviews integration
- **gravity-forms.php** - Gravity Forms integration and customizations
- **meta-tags.php** - Handles meta tags for SEO
- **performance.php** - Performance optimizations
- **schema.php** - Schema.org markup implementation
- **search.php** - Search functionality customizations
- **shortcode-last-updated.php** - Shortcode for displaying last updated date
- **shortlinks.php** - Custom shortlinks functionality
- **sitemap.php** - XML sitemap generation

## Installation

1. Upload the `84em-custom` folder to the `/wp-content/plugins/` directory
2. Activate the plugin through the 'Plugins' menu in WordPress
3. No additional configuration is needed as the plugin works automatically

## Requirements

- WordPress 6.8 or higher
- PHP 8.0 or higher

## Development

### Changelog Management

This plugin includes automated changelog generation based on Git commit history and tags.

#### Scripts

- **update-changelog.sh** - Generates `changelog.txt` from Git log, organized by tags/releases
- **tag-and-changelog.sh** - Creates a Git tag and automatically updates the changelog

#### Usage

To create a new release with automatic changelog generation:

```bash
./tag-and-changelog.sh v1.0.3 "Release version 1.0.3 with new features"
```

This will:
1. Create a Git tag with the specified name and message
2. Generate an updated changelog.txt file
3. Commit the changelog changes
4. Provide instructions for pushing to remote repository

**Note:** The changelog is automatically updated only when creating Git tags. Manual execution of `update-changelog.sh` is not supported to ensure changelog updates occur only when tags are added to the repository.

#### Changelog Format

The generated changelog follows the [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/) format and includes:
- **[Unreleased]** - Commits since the latest tag
- **[Tag Version] - Date** - Commits included in each tagged release

#### Deployment Integration

The `deploy.sh` script handles deployment to the remote server. Changelog updates are handled separately through the tag creation process to ensure they only occur when Git tags are added.

### Gulp Integration

This plugin uses Gulp to optimize JavaScript and CSS files. The Gulp setup provides tasks for minifying JS files, optimizing CSS files, and watching for changes during development.

#### Setup

1. Make sure you have Node.js and npm installed
2. Navigate to the plugin directory in your terminal
3. Run `npm install` to install dependencies

#### Available Commands

- `npm start` - Starts the development process with file watching
- `npm run build` - Builds optimized files for production

#### Gulp Tasks

- `gulp clean` - Removes previously generated minified files
- `gulp styles` - Optimizes CSS files
- `gulp scripts` - Minifies JavaScript files
- `gulp watch` - Watches for changes in source files
- `gulp build` - Builds all assets for production (cleans, then processes JS and CSS)

#### File Structure

The Gulp setup processes the following files:
- JavaScript: `inc/google-reviews-block/block.js` → `inc/google-reviews-block/block.min.js`
- CSS: 
  - `inc/google-reviews-block/style.css` → `inc/google-reviews-block/style.min.css`
  - `inc/google-reviews-block/editor.css` → `inc/google-reviews-block/editor.min.css`

## Usage

Most features work automatically after activation. The plugin enhances your site's SEO, performance, and functionality without requiring manual configuration.

### Shortcodes

- `[last_updated]` - Displays the last updated date of a post or page

## XML Sitemap

The plugin automatically generates an XML sitemap at the root of your website (`sitemap.xml`). The sitemap is updated whenever a post, page, or project is published, with a 5-minute delay to prevent excessive regeneration.

## Version

Current version: 1.0.3

## Author

Andrew Miller @ 84EM - [https://84em.com/](https://84em.com/)

## License

This plugin is proprietary software developed specifically for 84EM.
